#summary One-sentence summary of this page.
#sidebar StoreTableOfContents

=Annotations=
EMFTriple provides a set of annotations to be defined over EMF Models. These annotations help to define how and where EMF Models are stored and retrieved. 
(To ease the use of annotations, please consider to install [http://wiki.eclipse.org/Emfatic emfatic])

{{{
@namespace(prefix="conf", uri="http://eclipse.org/conferences")
package Conferences;

@NamedGraph(uri="http://graph/")
@OWLClass(uri="http://eclipse.org/conferences#Entity")
class Conference {
	@Id(base="http://www.example.org/entities/")
	@DataProperty
	attr String[1] name;
	
	@ObjectProperty
	val Property[*] properties;
}
}}}

{{{@OWLClass}}}
 * Model element: EClass
 * Properties uri: set the URI of the class, will be use when asserting types for instances.

{{{@DataProperty}}}
 * Model element: EAttribute
 * Properties uri: set the URI of the property

{{{@Id}}}
Tells which property will be used as an Id for a given class. If there is no @Id annotation, the tool will look for a property marked as isId equals true (see emf features), or will look for a property call name. If none of these can be identified, then the URI of the instance, according to its current Resource, will be use as its Id.
 * Model element: EAttribute
 * Properties Base: set the namespace for the Id.

{{{@ObjectProperty}}}
 * Model element EReference
 * Properties uri: set the URI of the property

{{{@NamedGraph}}}
 * Model element EClass, EPackage
 * Properties uri: set the URI of NamedGraph. A NamedGraph is a subgraph of an RDF DataSource. If @NamedGraph is attached to a EClass, then all instances of this class will be store in the named graph, if the annotation is attached to a EPackage, then all instances of package classes will be stored in the named graph.